Auxetic Lattice Studio - Mac setup (no terminal typing needed)

ONE-TIME SETUP
1. Install Python: go to https://www.python.org/downloads/ , download the
   macOS installer (a .pkg file), double-click it and click through. This is
   a normal graphical installer - no terminal required.
2. Unzip the file you received by double-clicking it. You'll get a "vip" folder.

TO RUN THE APP
3. Open the "vip" folder and double-click "launch.command".

GETTING PAST THE SECURITY WARNING (first time only)
macOS blocks anything downloaded from the internet the first time. You'll see
a dialog like:  '"launch.command" Not Opened - Apple could not verify ...'.
This is expected. To allow it (all clicking, no terminal):
   a. Click "Done".  (Do NOT click "Move to Trash" - that deletes the file.)
   b. Apple menu  ->  System Settings  ->  Privacy & Security.
   c. Scroll down to the "Security" section. You'll see a line:
      '"launch.command" was blocked to protect your Mac.'  Click "Open Anyway".
   d. Confirm with Touch ID or your login password.
   e. One more dialog appears - click "Open Anyway" again.
You only do this once. After that, double-clicking launch.command just works.

WHAT HAPPENS WHEN IT RUNS
A small Terminal window opens and shows progress - you do NOT type anything.
The first run installs everything (a few minutes); later runs start in a couple
of seconds. The app window appears when it's ready. Keep that Terminal window
open while you use the app; closing it closes the app.

WORST-CASE FALLBACK (only if "Open Anyway" never appears, or you get
"permission denied"). This is the one step that touches Terminal, and only once:
   1. Open the Terminal app (Applications > Utilities > Terminal).
   2. Type the following, then a single space (do NOT press Return yet):
         xattr -dr com.apple.quarantine
      Now drag the "vip" folder from Finder onto the Terminal window (that
      pastes its location), then press Return.
   3. Type this and a space:   chmod +x
      Drag "launch.command" onto the Terminal window, then press Return.
   4. Double-click launch.command again - it will run.

NEED PYTHON? If you see "Python not found" or "Python too old", install
Python 3.11 or newer from python.org (step 1) and try again.
